oop: adds intro-to-oop, intro-to-oop-contd, python-oop, oop-relationships. (#42)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-1: intro-to-object-oriented-programming/what-is-oop.md

- Generic **methods**
  - A method is a function that describes behavior or action
- Logic to describe what happens every time the class is used to make an **instance.**

### !callout-info

## Examples: Idea to Class

Observe these examples of classes that already exist, or classes that could exist.

| Idea to represent                                                                                         | Class Name |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| A class that describes the idea of a sequence of text                                                     | String     |
| A class that describes an ordered list                                                                    | List       |
| A class that describes a vehicle driver working at a ride-share app, who has a ride history and a vehicle | Driver     |
| A class that describes a music album sold in a digital music store, and all its data                      | Album      |

### !end-callout

### Creating Instances of Classes

An **instance** is a concrete, literal manifestation of a class.

> A _class_ defines a data type _generically_, much like a template, or blueprint. It determines what that data type _can potentially_ hold as state or behavior.
> 
> On the other hand, an _instance_ of a class is a _concrete thing_ of that data type, with concrete state and behavior. One instance is one specific thing that has literal state and literal behavior. Each instance allocates and uses memory, just like other pieces of data.

Author: ```suggestion
A _class_ defines the plans for a data type, much like a template, blueprint, or recipe. It determines the initial—or base—state, and the behaviors of that data type. The class definition is used to build instances.
 
An _instance_  is a single example of a class. The class provides the recipe to bake a cookie and the instance is the actual cookie (in its physical and yummy form)! Class instances, like other pieces of data, allocate and use memory, and have concrete state and behavior. 
```

@audreyandoy @anselrognlie Tagging for visibility

Each of these data types:

- represent a different, unique idea as data
- have unique behavior that is meaningful to itself

For example...

- Integers
  - represent whole numbers
  - can be subtracted with another integer or float
- Strings
  - represent text
  - can be concatenated with other strings
- Booleans
  - represent true or false
  - can be negated

### Defining Classes

Beyond using Python's built-in data types, we can define our own data types.

To define our own data type, we create a **class.** A **class** is code that defines a template for creating similar objects.

Each class definition will have:

- A class name
  - This name is used as the "data type" name
- Generic **attributes**
  - An attribute is a piece of data
  - A class definition holding an attribute means we expect this class to hold a specific piece of data
- Generic **methods**
  - A method is a function that describes behavior or action
- Logic to describe what happens every time the class is used to make an **instance.**

### !callout-info

> ## Examples: Idea to Class

Author: ![Screen Shot 2021-02-03 at 2 38 09 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/30602862/106818660-722c4f00-662d-11eb-87ee-548ceb995c00.png)

For lack of better tools ATM

> ## Examples: Idea to Class

Reviewer: Cool. Looks pretty great!

Observe these examples of classes that already exist, or classes that could exist.

| Idea to represent                                                                                         | Class Name |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| A class that describes the idea of a sequence of text                                                     | String     |
| A class that describes an ordered list                                                                    | List       |
| A class that describes a vehicle driver working at a ride-share app, who has a ride history and a vehicle | Driver     |
| A class that describes a music album sold in a digital music store, and all its data                      | Album      |

### !end-callout

### Creating Instances of Classes

An **instance** is a concrete, literal manifestation of a class.

A _class_ defines a data type _generically_, much like a template, or blueprint. It determines what that data type _can potentially_ hold as state or behavior.

> On the other hand, an _instance_ of a class is a _concrete thing_ of that data type, with concrete state and behavior. One instance is one specific thing that has literal state and literal behavior. Each instance allocates and uses memory, just like other pieces of data.

Reviewer 2: I need a second opinion here but generic vs. concrete/literal state or behavior is hard (at least for me) to grasp. Can we simplify this, perhaps? Maybe something along the lines of:

> A _class_ defines a general data type, much like a template, blueprint, or recipe. It determines the initial state or behavior of that data type. 
> 
> On the other hand, an _instance_  is the implementation of a class. The class provides instructions to create a cookie and the instance would be the actual cookie (in its physical and yummy form)! The instance will be like other pieces of data that allocate and use memory and have concrete state and behavior. 

We would probably extend this 'cookie' analogy to the next paragraph. 

@tildeee

| List   | `["red", "orange", "yellow"]`                  | `["June", "July", "August"]`                      |
| Driver | A driver with a driver ID of `DR0004`          | A driver with a driver ID of `DR0005`             |
| Album  | Dirty Computer (2018)                          | Purple Rain (1984)                                |

### !end-callout

#### Synonyms for Creating Instances

Creating instances is something we'll do a lot, almost as much as making variables or using loops. There are a lot of ways to say that we're creating an instance.

We might say...

- I'm making an instance of an `Album`. This instance represents one album, named "Purple Rain."
- I'm creating an instance of `Album`. This instance represents one album, "Purple Rain."
- I'm instantiating the `Album` class. Now I have an instance, which is "Purple Rain."
- I'm making an `Album` object. The `Album` object is the "Purple Rain" album.
- The "Purple Rain" instance of `Album` is very different from the "Dirty Computer" instance of `Album`.
- "Purple Rain" and "Dirty Computer" are both instances of `Album`.

### State and Behavior

> When we start defining our own classes, we will define their generic **state** and their generic **behavior.**

Author: ```suggestion
When we start defining our own classes, we will specify their **state** and their generic **behavior.**
```

For some reason I feel pretty strongly about keeping future tense for this intro-intro-conceptual lesson

(the "some reason" is something about acknowledging that the journey is about to start and inviting them, and I have this whole pedagogical thing about inviting students and giving them permission to start doing something they've never done before by saying "we will do this" rather than "when we do this thing and it kinda sounds like you might already be doing it but you probably aren't so it sounds like I'm addressing people who are already doing it")

(Maybe one day I'll write that in a more coherent form. Sorry)

> When we start defining our own classes, we will define their generic **state** and their generic **behavior.**

Reviewer: Ah.  Fair point.  It was intended to be more forward looking than I had read it.

| List   | `["red", "orange", "yellow"]`                                                                                             | These specific items, in this specific order                                    | Reverse the order of its elements                                            |
| Driver | A driver with ID `DR0004`, 3 trips, who has earned $35, has an average rating of 4.67                                     | Its ID, number of trips, total amount of money earned, and total average rating | Calculate its own average rating, tell you the number of trips they've taken |
| Album  | Dirty Computer (2018), which has 14 tracks in a certain order, was released April 2018, has a total album length of 48:42 | Tracks (number and order), release date, total album length                     | Return the audio data for any specific track it has                          |

### !end-callout

## Summary

In OOP...

We will represent an idea as a data type by defining a **class.** A class is a template, or blueprint of the idea. The class is where we define the idea's generic **state** and **behavior.**

> After we've defined the idea by defining a **class**, we will use this template/blueprint to create manifestations, or **instances** of this class. These instances are also known as **objects.**

Author: Not important (still gonna go with the above suggestion as-is), but I wish there were maybe a different word besides "examples." Just speaking this into the air.

> After we've defined the idea by defining a **class**, we will use this template/blueprint to create manifestations, or **instances** of this class. These instances are also known as **objects.**

Reviewer: I know, right!? But I could not find a single synonym that I was happy with.  It's super annoying that the most appropriate normal English word to use would just be "instance", but that's a little weird since we're defining instance.  A rare example where a programming term and the actual English word align in meaning...
